---
created: 2023-07-28 09:04
---

# Friday, July 28, 2023

---

## Activites
Day 2 at [[CogSci2023]].

### Infants Infer Social Relationships between individuals who Engage in Imitative Social Interactions
Nice work showing longer gaze times when expecting some kind of social relationship based off of imitation both of and by a character in a video.

### Young children can identify knowledgeable speakers from their causal influence over listeners
Wubs are cool. A lot of these tasks seem to have nice control (as identical as possible).

### Psychological distance and children's innovative problem solving
Copying the crows, look for the new Caledonian crow video of tool use. Psychological distance and children's creative play? Trope and Liberman 2010. A series of work on priming temporal or spatial "psychological" distance improving children's creativity. This idea of psychological distance is extremely different from what I thought.

### Around the world in 60 words: A generative vocabulary test for online research
[underline_link](https://underline.io/events/405/sessions/15591/lecture/80743-t-19-01-1903-dashdash-around-the-world-in-60-words-a-generative-vocabulary-test-for-online-research) for the abstract. An interesting tool (WikiVocab) for testing vocabulary of participants for global study.

Lucid (new platform similar to Prolific) available on PsyNet.

### Re-examining cross-cultural similarity judgments using language statistics
[underline_link](https://underline.io/events/405/sessions/15591/lecture/80744-t-19-02-2050-dashdash-re-examining-cross-cultural-similarity-judgments-using-language-statistics) for the abstract. Thematic similarity (from Holistic reasoning) vs Taxonomic similarity (from Analytic reasoning) could be influencing the differences between similarity judgement in East Asian vs Western cultures.
Or it could be previous input, or the contexts of their culture leading to closer similarity due to familiarity of co-occurence of the items.

### Just Tell the Truth: Correcting Misconceptions with Simple, Factual Statements
[underline_link](https://underline.io/events/405/sessions/15589/lecture/80738-t-17-04-1335-dashdash-just-tell-the-truth-correcting-misconceptions-with-simple-factual-statements) for the abstract. Simple feedback may by enough. Labelling by companies like Facebook may be enough, at a global level as opposed to more complex interventions on preventing or removing misconceptions.

How does a 2 session study, with the second session the very next day show that simple interventions promote conceptual change, rather than participants matching the expected or anticipated correct? response of the researcher(s).

### Cognition in Context? What Role should Behavioural and Cognitive Science play in Public Policy?
[[Ben Newell]] talks about nudges and their initial promise, and general under delivery on that promise. It fell into the desire for simple solutions to difficult problems.

[[Magda Osman]] looks at replication failures, and I should read the paper [[Learning from Behavioural Changes that Fail]] - see https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33129722/.

[[Belinda Xie]] from the Department of Prime Minister and Cabinet. Ran a [[Discrete Choice Experiments|DCE]] to test incentives to attract highly desirable people to take up teaching. Interesting stuff, if interested , see https://behaviouraleconomics.pmc.gov.au/ and contact beta@pmc.gov.au.

[[William Mailer]] from CommBank Behavioural Science team talks about the OPower study in the US which "nudges" people by showing people what their neighbours power usage study. Talks up the possibility of longer running relationships between gov, ngo or private industries in collaboration with researchers to create longer programs that are not stop/start.

Discussion and [[Nick Chater]]. Being up front and as transparent as possible can prevent backlash. Re Gambling from Belinda's talk, why don't we avoid nudges and implement restrictive policy solutions on the industry as a whole. And regarding longer larger studies, make sure we look at already working solutions in the world.

---

## Temporary Notes


---

## Thought for the day

---

### Notes created today
```dataview
List FROM "" WHERE file.cday = date("2023-07-28") SORT file.ctime asc
```

### Notes last touched today
```dataview
List FROM "" WHERE file.mday = date("2023-07-28") SORT file.mtime asc
```
---

###### Tags

#dailyNote
