---
created: 2023-07-30 09:40
---

# Sunday, July 30, 2023

---

## Activites

### Understanding human information systems
[[Andrew Perfors]] - do we miss the forest for the trees when focusing on specific problem platforms, misinformation sources etc.

How could we measure an information system, and its health. Analogous to MCMC or information search. What kinds of properties achieve a good info search. (overall network structure, biases in transmitters etc). good info search maximises covers the space, is not too slow.

### Fact Checkers and self-certification
[[Piers Howe]] talked about "wisdom of the crowds" approach to fact checking information online.

### Manufacturing Misinformation
[[Nicolas Fay]] talks about the relative persuasiveness of falsehoods vs truth. Persuasion, not just transmission of misinformation.

### Mapping conversational trajectories of influence
[[Carolyn Semmler]] presents a jumble of ideas about conversational analysis of tweets and network analysis of tweeters or conversations. How to marry them and gain useful insights from them.

### Feel before you share
[[Emily Mullins]] talks about the social and emotional characteristics of information that lead to sharing behaviour. Emotional arousal seems to be a good predictor of sharing intention.

---

## Temporary Notes


---

## Thought for the day

---

### Notes created today
```dataview
List FROM "" WHERE file.cday = date("2023-07-30") SORT file.ctime asc
```

### Notes last touched today
```dataview
List FROM "" WHERE file.mday = date("2023-07-30") SORT file.mtime asc
```
---

###### Tags

#dailyNote
