---
created: 2023-07-27 11:19
---

# Thursday, July 27, 2023

---

## Activites
Attended [[CogSci2023]] day 1. Missed the Human/AI talks, and will have to go back and watch them. Made it in to the Representation and Action talks.

### Structured Dynamics of Hierarchical Action Selection
[[Juliana Trach]] used a forced choice paradigm and a paradigm that either sets up a structure to the simple stimuli, or no structure. Different levels of this hierarchical structure are mapped to different simple aspects of responses (which hand, which couplet of) fingers, which finger)

### Dynamic Predictive Coding Explains both Prediction and Postdiction in Visual Motion Perception
Predictive Coding uses prediction error.

### A reinforcement learning framework for information-seeking and information-avoidance
Individual differences between whether you seek information only to reduce uncertainty *cognition*, or more to seek positive reward (and avoid information that can lead to punishment) *affect*.
The general approach seems to be to split a gambling task with an information seeking component into three separate reinforcement learning sub-models, one each for affect, cognition and action.
I'm not super convinced by this approach. The simulation? work doesn't seem to provide a way to distinguish between the information types (affective, cognitive etc).
Perhaps look at the paper for more detail, [[irene Dezza]] also has a book out in Cambridge Press (https://www.cambridge.org/core/books/abs/drive-for-knowledge/drive-for-knowledge/14E802BAEF1EB1D81144BBA9DA322BE9)

### Eye movements in information-seeking reading
This seems like a great use of eye tracking. Looking at the same text passages with either a question relating to the text only after reading (gathering, or normal reading), or with a preview of the question before reading.
I think a read of the cogsci paper is in order.

---

## Temporary Notes


---

## Thought for the day

---

### Notes created today
```dataview
List FROM "" WHERE file.cday = date("2023-07-27") SORT file.ctime asc
```

### Notes last touched today
```dataview
List FROM "" WHERE file.mday = date("2023-07-27") SORT file.mtime asc
```
---

###### Tags

#dailyNote
