# [[Hypatia Health]]: Cognitive Modelling Made Easy

## Background
Applying cognitive modelling to behavioural data can add important information about the underlying processes that lead to this behaviour. Cognitive modelling has significantly impacted research into aspects of cognition such as [[reinforcement learning]], [[decision-making]], [[memory]] and more. Additionally, there is a growing movement towards personalised treatment in psychiatry. Understanding and measuring change for the underlying computational mechanisms is a promising direction for achieving this personalisation. There are significant barriers to applying cognitive modelling to psychiatry as researchers cannot be experts in all fields.
## Methods
Hypatia Health is designed to make the application of cognitive modelling to your domain as seamless as possible. We offer robust and rigorous mathematical and statistical models, all within an easy-to-use interface. You can interact with the models, receiving visual feedback as you manipulate model parameters. You can also plan your studies, adjusting the trials per participant and the participants per group, and then simulate participant responses to ensure your studies are appropriately specified.
## Results
When you have your simulation results, you can feed them back into our estimation module, allowing you to assess whether the known model parameters are recoverable. Additionally, when you have run your cognitive task, you can bring your empirical data back to Hypatia Health and have the confidence that your cognitive modelling analysis is being performed with the most up-to-date cutting-edge developments and open cognitive science practices.
## Conclusion
Hypatia Health is designed to be used by researchers and clinicians for experimental/intervention design and data analysis and to track cognitive change over time. We plan to integrate with experiment design platforms to reduce friction between a project's planning and implementation stages. We are instantiating a gold standard for model simulation and estimation, ensuring that code and model variation are removed from analysis bottlenecks, making it easier for experimentalists and clinicians to focus on their research theory, questions and outcomes.