---
cssclasses:
  - research_note
type: journalArticle
author: Karvelis, Povilas; Hauke, Daniel J.; Wobmann, Michelle; Andreou, Christina; Mackintosh, Amatya; Bock, Renate de; Borgwardt, Stefan; Diaconescu, Andreea O.
title: Test-retest reliability of behavioral and computational measures of advice taking under volatility
publication: PLOS ONE
date: 2024-11-18
citekey: karvelis2024testretest
aliases:
  - Test-retest reliability of behavioral and computational measures of advice taking under volatility
---

# Test-retest reliability of behavioral and computational measures of advice taking under volatility

Karvelis, P., Hauke, D. J., Wobmann, M., Andreou, C., Mackintosh, A., Bock, R. de, Borgwardt, S., & Diaconescu, A. O. (2024). Test-retest reliability of behavioral and computational measures of advice taking under volatility. _PLOS ONE_, _19_(11), e0312255. [https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0312255](https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0312255)
[online](http://zotero.org/users/7162438/items/MLR6FKPU) [local](zotero://select/library/items/MLR6FKPU) [pdf](file:///home/gjc216/Zotero/storage/ZKV9BPTI/Karvelis%20et%20al.%20-%202024%20-%20Test-retest%20reliability%20of%20behavioral%20and%20computational%20measures%20of%20advice%20taking%20under%20volatility.pdf)
 

 
%% begin notes %%

## My Thoughts

A nice clean investigation of [[test-retest reliability]] of model parameters looking into the parameters of a [[Hierarchical Gaussian Filter]] model of advice taking within a probabilistic game. Both behavioural measures related to [[reinforcement learning]] like **win-stay** and **lose-shift** were poor in the [[Intraclass Correlation Coefficient|ICC]] estimates of test-retest,  and the associated HGF measures estimated using [[tapas]].

Some nice points to consider, I like the writing here. It is clean without distraction and figure heavy withu overexplaining. Additionally there are some references here to chase up regarding possible changes to the study design to improve reliability

%% end notes %%

### Annotations

%% begin annotations %%

##### Imported on 2025-01-12 2:38 pm
>[!quote|#e56eee]
>psychiatric nosology [(p. 1)](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZKV9BPTI?page=1&annotation=Y2C8UHBU)

---
>[!quote|#5fb236]
>To make sure that our models are recoverable, we repeated this procedure for all other models, while also fitting each model to the data generated by the other models. We then performed random-effects Bayesian model selection (based on the free energy approximation of the Bayesian model evidence) on each of the datasets and averaged the resulting protected exceedance probabilities across the 20 runs to produce a confusion matrix to assess model recovery. [(p. 7)](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZKV9BPTI?page=7&annotation=973PRLGW)

---
>[!quote|#5fb236]
>Calculations were performed using icc function from irr package (version 0.84.1) in R (version 4.2.2) [(p. 7)](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZKV9BPTI?page=7&annotation=WRC4CT85)

---
>[!quote|#5fb236]
>In general, the degree to which state-like fluctuations impact computational measures remains understudied, even though previous work indicates its importance [36–38]. [(p. 15)](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZKV9BPTI?page=15&annotation=H7NT86CP)

---
>[!quote|#5fb236]
>A new wave of research is needed that places more emphasis on high test-retest reliability: see [51] for some of the main task design factors to consider. [(p. 18)](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZKV9BPTI?page=18&annotation=BVR9BSQU)

---%% end annotations %%

## Item Notes

#### Tags

##### Keywords

#subject/psychometrics #subject/learning #subject/behavior #task/advice_taking_under_volatility 

##### Authors

[[Povilas Karvelis]] [[Daniel J. Hauke]] [[Michelle Wobmann]] [[Christina Andreou]] [[Amatya Mackintosh]] [[Renate de Bock]] [[Stefan Borgwardt]] [[Andreea O. Diaconescu]]

##### Publication

[[PLOS ONE]]


%% Import Date: 2025-01-12T14:38:55.968+11:00 %%
