---
cssclasses:
    - research_note
type: "journalArticle"
author: "Pachur, Thorsten; Suter, Renata S.; Hertwig, Ralph"
title: "How the twain can meet: Prospect theory and models of heuristics in risky choice"
publication: "Cognitive Psychology"
date: 2017-03-01
citekey: pachur2017how
aliases: 
    - "How the twain can meet: Prospect theory and models of heuristics in risky choice"
---

# How the twain can meet: Prospect theory and models of heuristics in risky choice

Pachur, T., Suter, R. S., & Hertwig, R. (2017). How the twain can meet: Prospect theory and models of heuristics in risky choice. _Cognitive Psychology_, _93_, 44–73. [https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cogpsych.2017.01.001](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cogpsych.2017.01.001)
[online](http://zotero.org/users/7162438/items/UDL6AXGC) [local](zotero://select/library/items/UDL6AXGC) [pdf](file:///home/gjc216/Zotero/storage/F7P2QZXM/Pachur%20et%20al.%20-%202017%20-%20How%20the%20twain%20can%20meet%20Prospect%20theory%20and%20models%20of%20heuristics%20in%20risky%20choice.pdf)
 

 
%% begin notes %%

## My Thoughts

The authors investigate the marriage of heuristics and [[Cumulative Prospect Theory]] as a way of integrating to relatively independent approaches to the analysis of [[Risky Choice]] decisions. [[CPT]] is an algebraic method that tends to investigate how people weigh up gains vs losses in risky gambles, without saying too much on the way people process the information. The heuristic methods on the other hand focus on the information search and integration processes.

A wide range of studies (both simulation and empirical) were performed, developing ranges of CPT parameters that "diagnose" different heuristics. A decent run-down of various heuristics are included, but they are often given different names than used in the consumer/preferential choice literature.

They conclude that [[Cumulative Prospect Theory|CPT]] can be used not just for algebraic assessment of decision makers propensity for things like [[loss aversion]], but also to interrogate the processes used by subjects.

There are some parallels here with my approach to the [[Architecture of MultiAttribute Choice]] work.
#### How do they know this?

Given low to moderate levels of noise and a consistent decision strategy, the parameters of the CPT can be used to determine the heuristic being employed with good accuracy. They look at a subset of the heuristics here, and it would be interesting to see whether there are other heuristics that exist that could be confused based on the CPT parameter estimates.

#### What questions does this raise that aren’t addressed?

Out of scope for this paper, but this did srtrike me as similar in some ways to the work in the lab looking at effects of things like time pressure on the random utility model parameters. Could an RUM be used to discriminate between preferential choice heuristics?

%% end notes %%

### Annotations

%% begin annotations %%

##### Imported on 2026-02-10 10:59 am
>[!note|#ffd400]
> The focus here is on risky choice, and that comes with all its added tractability of expected utility and more

---
>[!note|#ffd400]
> A good run down on various heuristics described in the field of [[risky choice]].

---
>[!quote|#ffd400]
>CPT captured choices generated by the heuristics rather well, in most cases mimicking them more than 70% of the time (range 57–95%) [(p. 8)](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/F7P2QZXM?page=8&annotation=EHIQDHN4)

---
>[!quote|#ffd400]
>Such a ‘‘cognitive psychometrics” perspective on formal models is popular in memory research (Batchelder, 1998; Riefer, Knapp, Batchelder, Bamber, & Manifold, 2002), but has barely been invoked in work modeling the cognitive underpinnings of risky choice (and variability therein). [(p. 19)](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/F7P2QZXM?page=19&annotation=9VHC23Q6)

---
>[!quote|#ffd400]
>Choice heuristics are usually compared with each other in terms of their building blocks, specifically, their search, stopping, and decision rules (see Brandstätter et al., 2006; Gigerenzer et al., 2011; Payne et al., 1993; see also Shah & Oppenheimer, 2008) [(p. 20)](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/F7P2QZXM?page=20&annotation=EUGSDP8C)

---
>[!quote|#5fb236]
>Our analysis indicates that they can also be compared in terms of the constructs of algebraic models, such as risk aversion, loss aversion, outcome sensitivity, and probability sensitivity [(p. 20)](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/F7P2QZXM?page=20&annotation=4Z8NLN9N)

---%% end annotations %%

## Item Notes

#### Tags

##### Keywords

#subject/amadm-singleoption_paper #subject/cognitive_modeling #subject/heuristics #subject/mixed_model_paper #subject/prospect_theory #subject/risky_choice #subject/theory_integration

##### Authors

[[Thorsten Pachur]] [[Renata S. Suter]] [[Ralph Hertwig]]

##### Publication

[[Cognitive Psychology]]


%% Import Date: 2026-02-10T10:59:15.060+11:00 %%
