---
cssclass: research_note
type: "journalArticle"
author: "Wang, Yusu"
title: "The Categorization of Continuous Attributes"
publication: "Journal of Behavioral Decision Making"
date: 2024-01-01
citekey: wang2024categorization
aliases: 
    - "The Categorization of Continuous Attributes"
---

# The [[Categorisation|Categorization]] of Continuous Attributes

Wang, Y. (2024). The Categorization of Continuous Attributes. _Journal of Behavioral Decision Making_, _37_(2), e2383. [https://doi.org/10.1002/bdm.2383](https://doi.org/10.1002/bdm.2383)
[online](http://zotero.org/users/7162438/items/VVP7TSGL) [local](zotero://select/library/items/VVP7TSGL) [pdf](file:///home/gjc216/Zotero/storage/7D5IGUQG/Wang%20-%202024%20-%20The%20Categorization%20of%20Continuous%20Attributes.pdf)
 

 
%% begin notes %%

## My Thoughts

It just goes to show that you don't need a big complicated experiment with a fancy model to show a novel? effect. Here [[Yusu Wang]]]] runs seven experiments that for the most part each contain a core manipulation, a choice between two options that do not significantly different in the continuous distance between attribute levels, but do differ in the imposed category for each attribute.

By comparing the choices of people assigned to differing groups (which attributes fall into the same/different category) a sense of how the imposed categories effects choice can be inferred across many different contexts, and in the presence of monetary incentives, non-semantic category levels and more.

This will definitely provide a reference for the [[Exemplar-based consumer choice model|GCM inspired analysis]], as part of my [[thesis]] chapter on the that model. There are a few references on "self-directed" categories that I should investigate, like the Chernev and Gal and Fisher and Keil refs quoted below.

%% end notes %%

### Annotations

%% begin annotations %%

##### Imported on 2024-07-15 9:09 pm
>[!quote|#ffd400]
>Unlike previous research that has analyzed perceptions of continuous attributes across natural categories (Donnelly, Compiani, and Evers  2021; Isaac and Schindler  2014) or in people's self-generated mental categories (Chernev and Gal  2010), [(p. 2)](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/7D5IGUQG?page=2&annotation=BQ3WZ9XB)

---
>[!quote|#ffd400]
>they tend to focus on the qualitative aspects of the categories rather than on the quantitative aspects of the categorized items (Chernev and Gal 2010). [(p. 2)](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/7D5IGUQG?page=2&annotation=EGYBYNQM)

---
>[!quote|#5fb236]
>People tend to see continuous data in a categorical fashion (Fisher and Keil  2018). [(p. 3)](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/7D5IGUQG?page=3&annotation=X7QD8YSQ)

---
>[!note|#ffd400]
> Just one trial of interest? Just one choice...

---
>[!quote|#ffd400]
>this research demonstrated that categorization affects people's multi-attribute decisions [(p. 13)](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/7D5IGUQG?page=13&annotation=XYVR2SKF)

---
>[!quote|#ffd400]
>Unlike past research that analyzed the perceptions of continuous attributes across natural boundaries (Donnelly, Compiani, and Evers  2021; Isaac and Schindler 2014) or categories generated by the evaluators themselves (Chernev and Gal 2010), [(p. 13)](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/7D5IGUQG?page=13&annotation=FRNMTLFL)

---%% end annotations %%

## Item Notes

##### Note added on 2024-05-28 3:19 am

e2383 BDM-20-0403.R3

##### Note added on 2024-05-09 12:57 am

e2383 BDM-20-0403.R3

#### Tags

##### Keywords

[[categorisation|categorization]] #subject/first #subject/multi-attribute_decision_making #subject/preference_and_choice #subject/preference_shift

##### Authors

[[Yusu Wang]]

##### Publication

[[Journal of Behavioral Decision Making]]


%% Import Date: 2024-07-15T21:09:33.106+01:00 %%
