---
cssclass: research_note
type: "journalArticle"
author: "Wu, Wayne"
title: "We know what attention is!"
publication: "Trends in Cognitive Sciences"
date: 2023-12-15
citekey: wu2023we
aliases: 
    - "We know what attention is!"
---

# We know what attention is!

Wu, W. (2023). We know what attention is! _Trends in Cognitive Sciences_, _0_(0). [https://doi.org/10.1016/j.tics.2023.11.007](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.tics.2023.11.007)
[online](http://zotero.org/users/7162438/items/DAP29X49) [local](zotero://select/library/items/DAP29X49) [pdf](file:///home/gjc216/Zotero/storage/3XLJTPVF/Wu%20-%202023%20-%20We%20know%20what%20attention%20is!.pdf)
 

 
%% begin notes %%

## My Thoughts

Very philosophical in nature this [[Trends in cognitive science]] paper tries to unify different concepts or uses of the word [[attention]] in the cognitive sciences. This unification is a way of refuting previous papers arguing that we don't know what attention is by arguing that the way we study attention matches a common construct - particularly from the quoted excerpt from James below. Much of the work revisits the idea that attention is something _to be explained_ rather than something _that explains_ a behaviour.

One little side note, there was a nice reference to [[Marr's three levels]]

%% end notes %%

### Annotations

%% begin annotations %%

##### Imported on 2025-02-26 3:48 pm
>[!quote|#5fb236]
>James wrote [57]:  Everyone knows what attention is. [Attention] is the taking possession by the mind, in clear and vivid form, of one out of what seem several simultaneously possible objects or trains of thought. Focalization, concentration, of consciousness are of its essence. It implies withdrawal from some things in order to deal effectively with others (my emphasis). [(p. 5)](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/3XLJTPVF?page=5&annotation=JRX3HPWK)

---%% end annotations %%

## Item Notes

#### Tags

##### Keywords

#subject/action #subject/attention #subject/biased_competition #subject/explanation #subject/limited_resource #subject/mechanism

##### Authors

[[Wayne Wu]]

##### Publication

[[Trends in cognitive science|TiCS]]


%% Import Date: 2025-02-26T15:48:33.753+11:00 %%
