---
cssclass: research_note
type: "journalArticle"
author: "Zhou, Ran; Pitt, Mark A."
title: "Dual-process modeling of sequential decision making in the balloon analogue risk task"
publication: "Cognitive Psychology"
date: 2024-03-01
citekey: zhou2024dualprocess
aliases: 
    - "Dual-process modeling of sequential decision making in the balloon analogue risk task"
---

# Dual-process modeling of sequential decision making in the balloon analogue risk task

Zhou, R., & Pitt, M. A. (2024). Dual-process modeling of sequential decision making in the balloon analogue risk task. _Cognitive Psychology_, _149_, 101629. [https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cogpsych.2023.101629](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cogpsych.2023.101629)
[online](http://zotero.org/users/7162438/items/TBLV52A9) [local](zotero://select/library/items/TBLV52A9) [pdf](file:///home/gjc216/Zotero/storage/34XI2UVA/Zhou%20and%20Pitt%20-%202024%20-%20Dual-process%20modeling%20of%20sequential%20decision%20makin.pdf)
 
%% begin notes %%

## My Thoughts

Wow, 24 models compared. An interesting mix of process models as applied to the sequential risk-taking tasks, specifically the [[Balloon Analogue Risk Task]]. Underneath the hood a lot of the modelling here uses the [[diffusion decision model|diffusion model]], but there were other models built on top of this. Specifically there was the [[Bayesian Sequential Risk-taking]] model, the [[Exponential-Weight Mean-Variance]] model and the [[Scaled Target Learning]] model. Combinations of this and a simpler diffusion model wer used, where the simpler diffusion model represented the fast _System 1_ decision making that provided more automatic balloon pumping responses, combined with a _System 2_ decision making process using one of the aforementioned models for a more thorough assessment of the probability of balloon popping.

In all there was a bit of a lackluster performance in the model comparison metrics, with some noteable parameter recovery issues across all dual process models. I believe a lot of this could be related to the low number of trials that were used. With only 30 trials per participant perhaps there were just not enough opportunities for the models to connect with the data. I can't see any mention of hierarchical bayesian fitting, so perhaps something like this could aid in the fitting procedure.
0
%% end notes %%

### Annotations

%% begin annotations %%

##### Imported on 2024-10-11 3:17 pm
>[!quote|#5fb236]
>Many past experiments using the BART analyzed only choice data, and models were developed assuming a single response pathway where the participant carries out a simple pumping strategy [(p. 3)](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/34XI2UVA?page=3&annotation=MFB2KRL7)

---
>[!quote|#5fb236]
>Bayesian sequential risk-taking model (BSR; Pleskac, 2008). [(p. 3)](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/34XI2UVA?page=3&annotation=FISHDDH5)

---
>[!quote|#5fb236]
>Park et al. (2021) proposed the Exponential-Weight Mean-Variance (EWMV) model that utilizes prospect theory (Kahneman & Tversky, 2013) [(p. 3)](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/34XI2UVA?page=3&annotation=J2K6CBGA)

---
>[!quote|#5fb236]
>Scaled Target Learning (STL) model [(p. 3)](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/34XI2UVA?page=3&annotation=FIEYQVJA)

---
>[!quote|#ffd400]
>the actual probability that the participants will pump on a given pumping opportunity l by a logistic choice function. Park et al. (2021) improved the model’s performance in parameter identifiability by reparametrizing the learning parameters, and this reparameterized version of the BSR model will be used in all following analyses. [(p. 4)](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/34XI2UVA?page=4&annotation=E7YSET7P)

---
>[!quote|#ff6666]
>Pleskac and Wershbale (2014) classified the pumps with RTs that were 3 standard deviations slower than the individual’s baseline pumping rate as assessment pumps, and others as non-assessment pumps [(p. 4)](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/34XI2UVA?page=4&annotation=2KQHFHNC)

---
>[!quote|#ffd400]
>After the synthetic data were simulated, we obtained posterior distributions of each parameter using Bayesian parameter estimation (Gelman et al., 2013). Then, we z-scored both the estimated and true parameter values by the means and standard deviations of the 50 sets of parameters to compare the estimated parameters with their corresponding true values. Coefficients of the correlation between estimated and true parameter values were calculated and summarized for model comparison. [(p. 6)](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/34XI2UVA?page=6&annotation=4MIF4UXV)

---
>[!quote|#ffd400]
>Model mimicry, i.e., the ability of a model to account for data generated by competing models, needs to be assessed in order to determine how well a model can be discriminated from others (Wagenmakers et al., 2004). [(p. 8)](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/34XI2UVA?page=8&annotation=VSS3Y6BW)

---
>[!quote|#5fb236]
>This outcome differed from the findings of Diederich and Trueblood (2018), who showed better performance of two-stage models in risky decisions between gambles and sure options [(p. 14)](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/34XI2UVA?page=14&annotation=P6Y5U8Z4)

---
>[!note|#ffd400]
> Equations for the BSR, EWMV and STL models along with the drBSR and novel dual process models.

---%% end annotations %%

## Item Notes

#### Tags

##### Keywords

[[Balloon Analogue Risk Task|BART]]  [[Sequential Risk-taking]]
##### Authors

[[Ran Zhou]] [[Mark A. Pitt]]

##### Publication

[[Cognitive Psychology]]

%% Import Date: 2024-10-11T15:17:19.708+11:00 %%
