---
created: 2023-09-11 14:25
---

# Monday, September 11, 2023

---

## Activites

### A reading of the [[Architecture of MultiAttribute Choice]] paper

- Abstract will need more punch

#### Intro (section 1)
- First paragraph needs to get to the point a lot quicker, too backgroundy, maybe leave for later in the introduction.
- Remove Guys first note, covered now.
- Should I cover more general decision strategies, and then focus on single option only?
- _Identifying Decision Strategies_ needs more direction, in particular in paragraph two about aggregation
- Search self-report vs process tracing incongruities in literature.
- _Analysis Considerations_ needs some extra detail towards the end.
#### Decision Strategies (section 2)
- Remove first comment from Guy
- _Choices about options in isolation_ answer guy's point here to frame the question.
- Maybe scrap the precision stuff.
- Remove stopping rule framing.
- Break from Guy's comment about new section into later spot.
- Shorten _Veridical Choice Experiment_
#### A Principled Approach (section 3)
- Insert "dotpoints" from above, introducing sequential sampling approach.
- Assess and work on each of Guy's points.
### And the rest
- A lot more detail? to be added here, some very under-developed writing in these bits.

---

## Temporary Notes


---

## Thought for the day

---

### Notes created today
```dataview
List FROM "" WHERE file.cday = date("2023-09-11") SORT file.ctime asc
```

### Notes last touched today
```dataview
List FROM "" WHERE file.mday = date("2023-09-11") SORT file.mtime asc
```
---

###### Tags

#dailyNote
