---
created: 2023-09-20 10:43
---

# Wednesday, September 20, 2023

---

## Activites

Reading through [[Jesse Bourke]]'s paper [[Morphometrical Asymmetries and Tractography of Speech-Relevant Cortex in Relation to Language Lateralisation and Rapid Temporal Processing]]. Some feedback below.

---

## Temporary Notes

#### Paper feedback

I notice Juanita suggested a few fMRI -> functional MRI changes. perhaps the same for dMRI and mMRI? Lots of acronyms all up, not sure about the outlet.

#### [[HDR Festival]] spiel

Imagine you are a new parent trying to pick out some baby food. Given the many possibilities, it is unreasonable to compare all options against each other. Instead, we may quickly consider each option, rejecting some and accepting others for further consideration.
Given a small set of attributes (price, quantity, health rating), we may compare each food's values of these attributes to some _aspiration_ level, some internal value for that attribute. Many possible strategies for this comparison have been investigated in the literature. We could reject after the first "bad" attribute or reject if all attributes are "bad". Perhaps instead, a consumer may combine all attribute values, allowing "good" attributes to compensate for "bad" attributes.

Inferring the decision strategy actually employed by any individual is often difficult. People aren't always conscious of their decision strategy, so self-reporting can be problematic. Different strategies can also lead to similar choice patterns, so looking at choices alone is often insufficient. Alternative methods tell you about the order in which attributes were attended to but cannot infer how that information is integrated.

Throughout my PhD, I have explored ways to infer decision strategies on options by classifying each strategy by their assumptions about processing individual attributes. I have then applied models developed for perceptual decision-making to identify these component processes. Given information about the component processes and how they are combined then allows inferences about the higher-level strategies used.

My recent work investigates whether simple consumer choices could be investigated using categorisation models. The idea is that given enough examples, people begin to make quick judgements, classifying each new option (i.e. food) into a "good" or "bad" category. This approach is currently showing promise.

---

## Thought for the day

---

### Notes created today
```dataview
List FROM "" WHERE file.cday = date("2023-09-20") SORT file.ctime asc
```

### Notes last touched today
```dataview
List FROM "" WHERE file.mday = date("2023-09-20") SORT file.mtime asc
```
---

###### Tags

#dailyNote
