# EPC Day 1

## Talks to see

11:00 - 11:20 \#71 - Holwerda
11:20 - 11:40 \#136 - Sewell
11:40 - 12:00 \#57 - Zhou
12:00 - 12:20 \#86 - Osth
13:20 - 13:40 \#11 - Evans
14:00 - 14:20 \#85 - Chen \*

## Notes

### Sewell

The [[diffusion decision model|diffusion model]] for Conflict, ie Stroop, Flanker, Simon Data Differnces in Delta plots lead to hypothesis that processing of conflict underlying these tasks is not necessarily comparable. Main goal is reforumulation of Diffusion Models of Conflict framework to be more psychologically plausible.

### Zhou

[[Circular diffusion model]] with continuous outcome source memory. Looking at comparing models with memory precision + guesing vs memory precision intrusion errors, as well as guessing, intrusion and memory precision.

### Osth

Covering work about exponential vs power functions for free list recall (work I've seen - [[Linear Ballistic Accumulator|LBA]] on first recalled word). Exponential Reinstatement model (probability of primacy vs recency curve for drift rate) won Is primacy just a tendency to rehearse the list?

### Evans

Conflict tasks, looking at testing whether incongruent vs congruent differences are due to conflicting stimuli slower down responses, or supporting stimuli speeding up responses, or both. Nice view of model support over multiple datasets.

### Chen

[[Linear Ballistic Accumulator|LBA]] for memory strength in free list recall, nice modelling work on repeated presentations of list items and the possible mechanisms for how that effects recall.

# EPC Day 2

## Talk to listen

10:40 - 11:00 \#156 - Morgan 11:00 - 11:20 \#198 - Cruz 11:20 - 11:40
\#51 - Ghasemi \* 12:00 - 12:20 \#195 - Younan \*

## Notes

### Morgan

Eh - the competition aspect was good, RDM in competitive scenarios

### Cruz & Ghasemi

Again - Eh\!, brightness discrimination in logic.

### Younan

Awesome talk on Expert testimony and factors influencing persuasiveness
of the arguments.

# EPC Day 3

## Talks to Listen

09:00 - 09:20 \#116 - Howe
09:20 - 09:40 \#13 - Nurse
09:40 - 10:00 \#193 - Hayes
10:00 - 10:20 \#77 - Zhang

10:40 - 11:00 \#142 - Apthorp
11:00 - 11:20 \#192 - Brazil

14:20 - 14:40 \#26 - McIntyre

## Notes

### Howe

Models of belief polarisation using Bayesian

### Nurse

Interrupted because of Technical difficulties

### Hayes

Stream 3 is: 2647471000

### Zhang

Misfits towards longer time scales - perhaps Guy's TRDM could help here?